beyond the thousand people in this room
there are hundreds more attending this
event in the Air Force One pavilion
watching it on a big screen so I want to
welcome all of them as well
you know I also found it fascinating i
had a chance to stand next mark during
his book signing and to hear the number
of places that this audience has come
from is just amazing you know we of
course have our great neighbors from
Thousand Oaks and moorpark in simi
valley and but you have come from as far
as San Diego Fresno San Francisco
Colorado Virginia Texas Arizona Calgary
Canada Pennsylvania washington DC hawaii
idaho florida we even had a veteran that
I know mark was honored to meet that
fought on Iwo Jima is that terrific
this audience is also quick on its feet
by say that because you set another
record in another regard the event sold
out in just under 21 minutes
obviously that is quite a tribute to
mark when we have come to know at the
Reagan Library has a very special friend
in fact he was here very quietly a few
months ago with his dad Jack and his
entire family dedicating a portrait of
Ronald Reagan that was painted by his
father and it hangs in the lobby right
outside this room it's a terrific
addition here at the Reagan Library mark
thank you for bringing your daddy
so all this excitement over marks
appearance is a given he is one of the
most listened to radio talk show host in
the United States and with the
publication of ameri topia which follows
right on the heels of the hugely
successful Liberty in tyranny he
continues his streak as being one of the
nation's best selling authors as well
for the seventh week in a row ameri
topia has made the New York Times
bestseller list
we also play mark as one of our own here
at the library because in addition to a
love for our 40th President Ronald
Reagan and all that he stood for mark is
actually a Reagan alone he served as an
advisor to several members of President
Reagan's cabinet the Associate Director
of presidential personnel a Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Education deputy
solicitor the Department of the Interior
and ultimately as chief of staff to a
great American attorney general ed Meese
so with that ladies and gentlemen please
join me in welcoming the great one Mark
Levin
brother Han today okay so we thought
rather than let mark give a boring
speech
we would have a conversation and you're
going to join in on this after I get my
shot at him so mark first welcome to the
Reagan Library can you put more books
out yeah we sold all the rest thank you
very much I'll start with you know when
you wrote liberty and tyranny you sold
over a million books I think 1.2 million
and Counting huge number it was just
this huge success and and now you've
written another I know he hadn't written
the other because you need the money why
the reason for the for the fun you know
that why another book well you know he
can't put everything in one book and
liberty and tyranny was really a
restatement of conservatism and non
conservatism a reintroduction of it
because honestly I felt that the
Republican Party had turned into kind of
mush and I thought it was important with
what the left was doing in this country
to remind people of conservatism why
it's so magnificent why it embraces
liberty and private property rights and
the rule of law and individual
sovereignty and all these things that
have made America so great and yet on
the other hand the left which is
constantly trying to centralize and cons
and concentrate power and how much
damage has been done in the last hundred
years so you know it's kind of tough to
do that in 250 pages which I did and
then I thought to myself later I really
haven't gotten to the nub of this thing
that is what is this force that Lords
millions and millions of people to it
and then destroys their independence and
and it's so and the politicians who push
it are so effective in their propaganda
and the phony intellectuals who pushed
are so effective in the arguments they
make where does this come from kind of
when did it start
and I thought that had to be addressed
if we're going to really in my view save
the country the other point is well
where did our views come from you know
we talked about property rights and
these other things but where did they
come from the founders didn't wake up
one day and suddenly think about consent
of the governed three branches of
government where does this stuff come
from so it comes from a lot of places
but I decided to focus in on a few of
those places as well and so I've
concluded that the problem we have is
this utopian statism you can hear it
today where politicians get up and they
say I'm going to create a program and
I'm going to fix the mortgage situation
no they're not going to fix the mortgage
situation I'm going to create a program
and incomes are going to be equalized no
they're not going to be equalized I'm
going to create a program and I'm going
to do something else and all you have to
do is surrender more and more of your
liberty and more and more of your assets
and more and more of who you are and
somehow they're going to continue
they're going to fix the situation where
does this come from this ideology now
the problem is that these notions of
utopianism aren't utopian at all really
these are these are notions of these are
fantasies and the idea I felt when I
started this that the greatest country
on the face of the earth which has
created more wealth for more people in
any society ever more liberty for more
people than any society ever it's such a
civil society because our Constitution
is such a magnificent document why would
we surrender these things on these
fantasies and these hosts and these
claims so basically that's why I wrote
this book
you know you mentioned the word statism
and if there's a word out of liberty and
tyranny that you have successfully I
think brought back into the American
lexicon that's it statism now define a
merit opia for me well i got the
thinking after i go through a lot of
these philosophers this is a book
basically on political philosophy and
then at the end it all comes together I
tie it all together and the bottom line
was I got to thinking and I ended
liberty and tyranny this way we're not
really a federal republic anymore
because the states that gave the central
government its earth now live at its
best we're not really a constitutional
republic in many respects because so
much of our government is now wrote that
is we've got this massive bureaucracy it
doesn't matter who is elected it just
keeps operating and consuming and
regulating no matter who you vote for
and it's not really a representative
Republic anymore in that respect either
so I thought what is it well it's not
the America that the founders found it
it's something else and I think I came
up with the name of merit opium and I
don't know where we're going with this I
don't think anybody knows we were going
with it but there are aspects of tyranny
that a lot of people don't feel but a
lot of people do feel for instance if
you're a farmer today you're being put
upon like never before by the
Environmental Protection Agency if
you're a rancher today you're being put
upon today like never before by the
Interior Department we've got private
property owners under attack all over
this country we've got businesses small
businesses to under attack in every
direction and it's getting much and much
much worse and then we hear these
politicians talk about you got to have
skin in the game and I think to myself
skin in the game is that we were founded
for it to have skin in the game no we
were founded for them to make sure that
our Liberty is protected not for us to
give skin in the game for the
bureaucrats and the politicians
so basically the title in one word I
said I got to figure out one word that
it kind of explains it and then explain
it more in the book and that's a merit
opium mix between America and this
utopianism now let me say this you don't
have to clap every time I get an answer
I mean you can give a standing ovation
if you want but it's not necessary yeah
but whatever you want yeah you know I
have to confess the first half of the
book i'm reading through it and I'm like
I gotcha it felt like a professor was
taking me through a course on political
philosophy that sections you wrote where
it was let me define for you the very
origins of utopianism and the origins of
liberty and the class of the ideas and
the rest of that you took a really
scholarly approach this in my question
is this why did you feel for like you
know your average reader it was so
necessary to get that deep and to really
go to the roots of the the various
philosophies because I think my audience
is smarter than most other answers
that's number one
and number two if we're going to
understand what's happening to us then
we really need to understand what's
happening to us I mean if I just say oh
that guy's a liberal look what he wants
to do great so if you saw my dining room
table my dining room table of stacks
stacked with books on philosophy from a
hundred different philosophers and in
the end I got down to four Plato and the
Republic and Thomas More in Utopia
Thomas Hobbes and Leviathan and marks
and angles and the Communist Manifesto
some these books are fairly complicated
particularly in their translations if
you notice in my book not one of them is
more than 20 or 25 pages I get right
down to the nub of it but I let them
speak for themselves also the bottom
line is Plato's Republic the Ayatollah
Khomeini references it as one of the
things that that drove him toward the
type of society that he created which is
of course a genocidal theocracy in Iran
and what Plato does in the Republican he
is as defenders people say oh you're not
reading it right you don't understand
that's fine but in the Republic one of
the things they do is they want to
control health care and they want to
control health care because they want to
control the population and the the
oldest of the old and the frailest of
the frail and the in the most ill among
them are supposed to accept the fact
that death is an honorable thing under
under certain circumstances so society
can flourish and so forth and also the
whole notion of philosopher Kings is in
is is in the Republican and much much
more and then when you look at Thomas
morn utopia thomas more's utopia many
people argue was a fiction and that's
the problem communism in many respects
is based on on this utopian notion of
radical egalitarianism and so there we
have pretty much equal the attempted
equal incomes
the attempt that phony representative
government and isolationism you know
it's Peninsula they turn it into an
Iowan people who've been in the urban
areas after a while they're pushed out
forcibly if necessary into the farming
areas and you know you think about mal
you think about these other folks who
were doing this sort of thing I'm just
giving you a thumbnail then you move
into Thomas Hobbes Leviathan the whole
social compact Theory except in his case
I believe the Leviathan is this
monstrous centralized sovereign that
treats the people like subjects not like
citizens and they enter into this and
they can't get out this arrangement and
he thought that people on their own are
nasty brutish and there's a famous quote
of his and so they need to be controlled
by a benevolent mastermind then finally
course the communist manifesto which is
really trash but basically they create
this straw man of these two classes the
landowners and and the laborers and
nourish the shadow to meet and that the
laborers need to destroy the landowners
destroy society destroy religion destroy
any remnants of what's been exist what's
in existence and once they do that
eventually the state withers away and I
guess we have San Francisco 1960 I don't
know what
okay awful lot of people have died been
brutalized in these different theories
and yet this whole notion of soft
tyranny and centralized government and
all these other things these come out of
this sort of thinking this utopianism
type thinking and you can hear it in our
politicians today every week they have a
new program a new program that's not
going to work a new program that costs a
fortune a new program where the
government gets bigger and more powerful
and issues regulations and the biggest
problem here is that utopianism and
constitutionalism can't work together
you have to destroy the Constitution
because of all of its limits and I don't
mean to be long-winded here but the book
requires some explanation the founding
fathers fully understood the notion of
utopianism they were familiar with
Plato's Republic and little and they
were familiar with hobbes and more and
not the communist manifesto that came
later but they were familiar with these
what I call these mastermind attempts at
creating these perfect societies these
ideal societies and they completely
rejected them because they understood
that human beings are imperfect so that
doesn't make a handful of human beings
perfect it makes their imperfect too so
that's why they developed the
Constitution the way that they did let's
spin the clock forward from Plato to you
know relatively modern America and I you
have a chapter in your book and you go
into some length about Roosevelt the 30s
and 40s and the New Deal and the more I
read it the more I got got concerned as
it felt to me like maybe this last three
years has been an attempt at a new new
deal is is there any truth to that you
think well let me let me move back just
a little bit if you look at our
Constitution everybody knows it's broken
into three branches when you look at the
debates at the Constitutional Convention
the the what we call the
anti-federalists and when you look at
the ratification
Bates afterwards the anti-federalists
too they were not happy with this 3
division and even though each to each
division the legislature the judicial
and the executive were not given plenary
power they're given enumerated powers so
you can't just legislate about anything
you have to legislate about these things
you can't just be an executive and have
all the executive power you want you
have executive power to do these things
the judiciary is barely even defined so
our founding fathers are framers and
particularly were very concerned about
this notion of a centralized government
with consolidated power they were
familiar with these works that I
referred to and more and they just
fought a revolution and during the
ratification debates in the States the
Constitution almost didn't make it they
had problems and some including
Massachusetts John Adams was twisting
arms to get it past the south virginia
started to rise up pennsylvania was a
big problem so they had to agree to
these amendments they had to agree that
when the first if the constitution is
ratified by the states three-quarters of
the states then or in this case almost
three-quarters of the states then the
first congress would put out this these
twelve amendments send it to the states
in the states whether the ratify or not
and two of the most important amendments
were the eleventh and twelfth amendment
which became the ninth and tenth
amendments in the Bill of Rights the
Ninth Amendment talking about individual
authority sovereignty and the Tenth
Amendment talking about state silent the
Constitution would never have been
ratified without those promises of those
amendments and those amendments were
really taken from James George Mason in
the Virginia Declaration of Rights and
those were taken from John Locke earlier
on which we can talk about later if
anybody cares but anyway so the bottom
line was this it was crucial to the
Federalists and the anti
is that the central government be very
limited and these are the things that
can do it was crucial that the state's
retained the rest of their side and it
was crucial that the interpretation of
the Constitution be viewed through the
Ninth Amendment and that is holding up
the individual as somewhat is something
that has value and worth it is to be
protected so you have to attack the
Constitution you have to dismantle it in
order to push for a centralized
government with this concentrated power
this utopian statism I call it and among
the first although not the first but
among the most prominent advocates of
this was woodrow wilson and woodrow
wilson and i went back and looked at his
writings before he became president when
he was at Princeton and Woodrow Wilson
makes it very clear he dismisses the
unalienable rights line and concept in
the Declaration of Independence which is
the essence of our family he says the
Constitution cannot possibly be divided
this way with one in essence body part
Oregon fighting with another body part
organ so he basically said that the
federal government in two different
branches have to do whatever they have
to do to bring authority within the
federal government FDR took agreed with
that and FDR relied on a number of
phoning experts including a Columbia
Columbia professor who said that you
must attack individualism you must
attack American individualism or
otherwise this whole notion of of
community and consolidation can never
occur this is a long way of answering
your question the New Deal was clearly
an attack on our constitutional system
if these programs are so wonderful and
if the people want them so
overwhelmingly then we have a process
for adopting them it's called the
amendment process to the Constitution
but the way it works now is the federal
government the different branches it's
like an ongoing constitutional
convention where oh you got Obama Carol
what's the authority for that well who
cares passed the law you know
cap and trade same thing so what's going
on today comes down to two words and
they're not my two words fundamental
transformation those are Obama's words
and I asked a couple of questions when
you look at the Constitution in the
power of the present does the president
have the power to fundamentally
transform America of course not and why
would you want to fundamentally
transform America that means you don't
like America very much do you that means
you don't like capitalism private
property rights very much that means you
don't like our constitutional system
very much when you keep hearing this
fundamental transformation change is
hard we need more time for change you
need to understand this is a direct
attack on our constitutional system
that's what he's talking about that's
what he means to answer your question
yep I don't remember what it was
okay so you know I'm a radio host right
sure go what is the so what would you
say is if I've said you have to name the
number one thing that you think in the
last several years has robbed us more of
our liberty and drives this country more
towards Amira topia than anything else
what would it be there's no question
what it is it's Obamacare and the reason
is the reason is Obama cares about
health insurance but it's about more
than that it's about the final nail in
the coffin of the constitutional system
you look at Obamacare Obamacare is an
attack on the Commerce Clause the
purpose of the Commerce Clause was to
promote commerce between the states not
the kill Commerce not to kill
competition it'd be called the anti
Commerce Clause but that's the Commerce
Clause was to promote private property
rights trade and commerce because New
Jersey and Pennsylvania were fighting
with each other they were all blocking
each other on their rivers and so forth
say we got to fix this so the commerce
clause was pro-trade pro commerce the
Commerce Clause the notion that the
Commerce Clause could be used by
Congress to compel individuals do
something against their will or their
best interests and then in particular to
force a person to enter into a private
contract with a private company the
private companies forced to offer a
policy that it doesn't want to offer and
the individual is forced to pay for it
and the company's forced to provide it
that is so absurd that's so antithetical
to our founding and of course is all of
you here know that will be the end
because then the government can force us
to do all kinds of things that we don't
want to do and that will be the
precedent for it but Obamacare does more
than that you saw the recent attack on
the Catholic Church and other people of
faith and so forth why do we have to in
this country compel every single
insurance provider to provide free
contraceptives we don't have to the
status quo today is that they don't
and yet is it really that hard to get a
condom I mean I I don't I mean I'm just
saying it's really not that hard to get
a condom I mean most public schools are
handing them out like lollipops or
something so it's not that big and isn't
it interesting that that's what they
stood not cancer treatment not diabetes
treatment not heart disease but that but
that aside that attacks the whole notion
of the free exercise of religion and
even more than that it attacks private
property rights because maybe the
company and even more than that it
attacks individual liberty because maybe
I don't want to subsidize something for
free for somebody else let them pay for
it themselves and the government doesn't
have the power to tell me that I might
I said
there is one thing I want to mention on
this and this is this notion of tyranny
you know Alexis de Tocqueville talked
about this and he's not the only one
Jefferson did frdric Bastiat all these
you can have tyranny through democracy
in other words for instance if our
Congress is doing things outside the
Constitution just because it's decided
it can do it that's tyranny it's tyranny
by Congress but it's still tyranny the
idea that individuals can vote to steal
somebody's wealth because somebody wants
to redistribute it that's tyranny you'll
notice we don't have a direct democracy
at your democracy in our constitution
there's checks and about there's all
kinds of things in there to limit the
scope and the power of the federal
government and to make sure that
individuals can't the reason we enter
into a government is to protect our
bodies and our private property
otherwise there's no reason to enter
into a relationship a social contract
with government the problem now is the
government is using its power and the
law to attack them and so to plunder as
Basquiat would say so this is one of the
puzzles that we face as a people among
others what do you do about a situation
like this and even if you win elections
and we must but even if we win elections
are these the kind of politicians that
have such an understanding of the of the
dire situation in this country and it's
even more than financial its
constitutional that they're going to
take steps necessary to begin to reverse
course and let me tell you something
it's going to have to be a person of
enormous courage because the utopian
state is dug in it's got hundreds of
thousands of bureaucrats it's got a
massive amount of money it's got the big
media on its side it's got all the unit
most of the universities and colleges on
its side so it's it is it is a daunting
undertaking and yet it's an undertaking
we must take because we don't really
have any choice yeah well okay so along
those lines I did some math
and you got here at about one o'clock
today and in that time the federal debt
has increased by a billion dollars
between that moment and now that
California the whole country though
that's the whole country so that's it's
it's about a hundred fifty million
dollars an hour ok so now 50 million an
hour mm-hmm and so now the federal debt
is nearing the 16 trillion mark right so
the question I have for you is you know
given we're all slaves in one way shape
or form whether it's us or the next
generation or the one after to this
incredible debt that we're piling up it
isn't it over I mean in some respects
that having a debt of that size is it
you know that's driving us towards
utopia we're in Utopia the question is
how far do we want to go down this path
and where is it going to take us I had
Thomas all the great dr. Thomas all on
my program this week wednesday and i
said my last question it was dr. Saul
are we going to be a constitutional
Republican in 10 or 20 30 years or what
and he said and I'm speaking for myself
not the Reagan Library and he said if we
lose the next election we're not if you
talk to Walter Williams he says it's
over I guess what I'm saying is if you
listen to Ronald Reagan and this is the
place to listen to him and he's my last
quote in the book and I always turn to
him for some optimism not Pollyanna
phony optimism but optimism and he says
in the first inauguration in January
1981 and I paraphrase he said these
things are not inevitable we can take
steps to try and begin to turn them
around but if we don't then they are
inevitable and that's right there are
some plans out there whether it's Paul
Ryan
or DeMint and Rand Paul and others that
are serious efforts to start the process
to begin the process of gradually
unraveling this I don't know if the
American people is here's the problem
and I've said this on there have too
many Americans surrendered to this have
too many Americans been conquered by
this bought off by it through
entitlements are there too many
malcontents out there who are just
always attacking the system because
they're incapable of providing for
themselves or their too many pollyannas
out there blissfully living their lives
and allowing other people to control
what happens to them or there's still
enough of us who believe in the American
spirit and still enough of us who have
the old American mindset and psychology
in other words do we outnumber them or
do they outnumber us and we're going to
find out pretty damn soon and the bottom
line is this one election can't reverse
the course but one election can pull us
over the edge it's much harder to build
a society and to nurture traditions and
institutions that man is known for
thousands of years it's much harder to
do that than it is to destroy them you
can destroy them in one presidency the
notion that we sit here wondering if the
Supreme Court if one justice on the
Supreme Court is going to uphold that
individual mandate and other parts of
Obamacare or not tells you how much the
society is in decline one Supreme Court
justice should not be able to make that
decision and yet he can where she can
think about this a temporary Congress a
Congress that doesn't even exist anymore
the Congress that came in with Obama was
super majorities in the Senate in the
house they ran through Obamacare against
the will of the American people that
Congress has gone
their dirty work remains because they
try to institutionalize their activities
through the bureaucracy which is working
full time right now to put this in place
to counter any future election that's
what they're up to they're trying to get
the courts you only really need one
justice is my guess my prediction
they're trying to get the courts to give
it's their stamp of approval and so one
Congress one group of temporary
politicians will have forever and
fundamentally change this nation that is
what the Constitution was conceived to
stop we didn't just get here today this
has been going on a long time but we're
at the point now where were the time of
the hour is late that's the point that
souls making Walter Williams making
anybody with their head screwed on right
is making you're not giving out hemlock
tonight are you buddy
I mean I mean if anything this should
get you worked up
because I'm going to tell you something
the idea that we this generation of
Americans is going to surrender the
greatest nation on the face of the earth
of this people is mind-boggling to me
the idea we have a man here who fought
at Iwo Jima as to my grandfather the
idea that we have men and women in
uniform who have fought against enemies
foreign enemies to protect this society
the idea that we defeated Hitler & Tojo
and mazal Eenie the idea that we fought
a civil war to free the black people
from slavery the idea that this nation
and all the blood that's come and all
the blood that's gone and all the men
and women who died to preserve it that
we this generation that we're going to
sit on our asses and let these people
take this country is beyond my
imagination
ok
okay so how many audio bites they have
on me I would know that's not going to
work but well last question for me then
we're going to go to the audience but
it's a good lead-in from what you just
said so what can the average American do
about this well the average American can
take their children and their
grandchildren and instill in them the
American spirit to speak out in the
classroom when they have some Marxist no
nothing whether they're a teacher in
public school or college university and
challenge them I did it as a kid and let
the chips fall where they may it's time
to stand up it's time for young people
to understand that this generation is
destroying this country and that despite
the fact that our political leaders
whatever they call themselves these
political leaders are out there talking
about how they're taking care of them
with the student loans and all the rest
those political leaders are destroying
them this debt is so massive this debt
when you consider the entitlements as
well as the you talked about 16 trillion
dollars that that's over a hundred
trillion dollars when you include
everything our economy produces 15
trillion dollars in value every here
that that's never going to be paid back
it's impossible and if we continue along
this row what's soul and Williams knees
and even Ryan is saying we have two
years what they're saying is there is a
point of no return when the system
collapses and when the system collapses
the civil society collapses and when the
civil society collapse collapses all the
things that you take for granted people
generally being respectful to people
people generally reaching out to other
people that all that goes you'll see
violence in the streets you'll see other
things going on which you start to see
in Greece in these other places I mean
it's all there for us to see Greece
Portugal Spain Europe I mean it we you
know we have they they have
head start on their demise and all we do
is look at it but the answer is your
families your friends your neighbors
your co-workers educate them and as fast
as you can and here's the good news I've
been involved in politics for 40 years
in one way or another I worked on
Reagan's 76 and ad campaigns I worked in
his administration for eight years the
fact of the matter is I have never seen
so many people quoting and waving around
the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution many of you ten years ago
you never gave it a second thought now I
bet it's at the front of your minds and
it is with tens of millions of us the
fact of the matter is tens of millions
of us love this country we don't want it
fundamentally transformed so we have to
get to as many other people as we can
wake them up educate them the truth is
and I'm not trying to Pat myself on the
back that's the purpose of this book
that's the purpose of liberty and
tyranny I considered part of the purpose
of my radio program as to a number of my
brothers and sisters in broadcasting
which is why we're under attack all the
time these utopian status the fact of
the matter is we have a good message
liberty is a good message private
property rights it's a good message
constitutionalism is a good message what
do they have fantasies phony paradises
coercion they create misery I mean all
they ever says we need to spend more we
need to create more the government needs
to get bigger and bigger unemployment
now over eight percent they're plotting
today that it's eight point three
percent that is unheard of it's 36
months in a row of over eight percent
unemployment it's never happened before
sit Laura since the Great Depression
anyway but I don't know that it's ever
happened look at the housing market it's
a disaster again because of the
Community Reinvestment Act more
government social engineering these
masterminds don't know what they're
doing but they won't
stop and not and not only won't they
stop they could demand more and more
authority they are fanatics and even
when you argue with them on facts they
don't want to hear the facts even when
you show them experience they don't want
to know about experience when you tell
them that their science is phony when
you tell them that they're not using
knowledge they accuse you of that but
what they are doing is pushing a
fanaticism they're pushing a Dogma a
religion of sorts if you will and
they're not going to be talked out of it
so we have to talk more and more
Americans into our position and make
sure that we vote and even then it may
not work but we got to give it a try
yeah we're going to take questions from
the audience if I could just I can just
ask you one favor we have staff that are
roaming the aisles that have microphones
so if you raise your hand they'll get a
microphone to you if you just wait till
get the microphone to ask your question
and introduce yourself and we'll go from
there so we have one over here yeah
right here my name is Wendy Randall and
my question to you is why are the
Republican nominees not taking your
rhetoric using your rhetoric or creating
their own rhetoric to address all these
issues rather than attack one another
when this is when it's more important
that they address the issues that you
just addressed with us here this evening
why are they attacking each other and
not getting into these issues I think
they're doing both but the attacks are
are so constant and that the other parts
getting lost and on and I regret that
they're doing it because like I'm not an
idealist I'm a realist I know why one
candidate has to spend millions to tear
down the others he thinks that's his
weight it was the nomination problem is
we have a beautiful opportunity right
now with very smart men running all of
whom can be discussing these things at
everywhere they go and not be distracted
by well gee did he pay taxes and you
know 1974 and did this one do that who
gives a damn I don't really care the
fact of the matter is that we have got
to persuade the American people to our
point of view or it's over well you know
in the end the American people will
decide what kind of country they want to
have Benjamin Franklin said it the last
in his speech on the last day the
Constitutional Convention he was so ill
he wrote it and he gave it to James
Wilson a fella delegate from
Pennsylvania to read and at the end of
the speech what Franklin says and I
paraphrase again but the Constitution
will work for a period of time but then
the people will decide if they want to
live under despotism or not and if they
want to live under despotism then they
deserve it you have to keep in mind
these men who are berated and smeared by
the left all the time the framers of the
Constitution you know after the
revolutionary war was over they could
have done what's done in so many
countries taking power or a appointed a
king if George Washington wanted to be
king he probably would have been king
they were constantly concerned about
restraining power including our own
because they understood the notion of
Liberty so to answer your question is we
have what we have they say what they say
and we cannot rely on politicians to do
the work that we need to do now we need
to get the right politicians in office
to stop the others and to at least begin
the process but we have got to
reacquaint the American people are a lot
of American people with their heritage
that's what we have to do and so the
more you arm yourselves with information
this is a perfect place the Reagan
Library Hillsdale College my books other
people's books that sort of thing the
more you inform yourself the better
you're going to be a Patrick as I say
Patrick Henry
me and a Patricia Henry mmm over here
mark thank you for being a mensch well
thank you for that where are you hearing
voices to your lives on Marcus
everywhere my question is I would feel
that if I were Madison or Jefferson or
minus Q or lock and I'd look around at
what's going on around me and I see the
government lie to me and I see the media
lie to me constantly relentlessly I
don't know what they would do my thought
is we should every politician should say
I'm running against two people the
Democrat there and I'm running against
you the media you lie to the public hear
the facts if I'm wrong then you tell me
that I shouldn't be a politician I
shouldn't be running but if I'm right I
want the people to question you too and
not just my opponent what do you think
I've said something similar to that they
should run against the media and their
opponents but look what I coulda shoulda
you know I mean I I they are what they
are you know I come out of Pennsylvania
the Republican Party was a week mush
party like in so many states and
conservatives need to take these parties
over as a practical matter and they need
to do it and they need to do it fast
that you have to have you have to have a
party that is as resolute and aggressive
for the cause of constitutionalism as
you have a party that's as resolute and
aggressive against the cause of
constitutionalism the left never gives
up our guys keep telling us why they
can't do things the left never gives up
and I'm not going to use the form here
at the Reagan Library to give my opinion
about the Republican leadership in
Congress if you listen to the show you
know exactly what I think I've never
seen such timid I just said I wasn't
going to do
I'm a guest I'm a guest guests don't do
that sort of it but to answer your
question I think what Madison and
Jefferson and those fellows would say is
well of course politicians lie that's
why we told you not to give them so much
power that's why we divided up the
government that's why we enumerated
authority that's why we we have all
these states out there politicians were
great we wouldn't need to divide up
power we wouldn't need to enumerate
Authority wouldn't need all these states
we'd have a president like we have today
I'm going to tell you from my point of
view again speaking for myself as always
not at least right now we need to plug
the hole now what that means to me is
whoever the nominee is and I've said
before if it's an orange juice can
that's fine by me
this first has to be stopped so we can
take a breath take a look at the all the
damage that's been done along the
horizon begin the process of unraveling
this dig deep into the bureaucracies and
find all these little appointees and
yank them out eliminate most of these
regulations which are onerous which are
destructive of individuals and their and
their private property and we've got to
begin that process that process cannot
begin with this administration and I
want to tell you something else I also
think Jefferson and Madison of
Washington would say you don't live in
our constitutional republic anymore and
they'd be right so you know I want to
play along and go along with the rest of
the team you know I want to say
everything's going to be okay we just
hit the win one election and it's not
true it's just not true when you look at
this and people who are honest
intellectually about it who've looked at
these things for most of their lives as
I have is these other gentlemen I
mention have we know what's going on
Alexis de Tocqueville talked about a
soft tyranny that doesn't mean everybody
in America feels it right now but there
are Americans feeling it right now if
you produce things you feel it right now
if you work for energy companies you
feel it right now if you work for
healthcare companies you feel it right
now if you work for coal companies you
feel it right now if you're a small
business starting trying to get underway
with all these HR rules that are being
being uh you know unloaded on you're
starting to feel it right now so by the
way one of the last places that feels it
is where I am right well close couple
miles away is Hollywood they don't feel
any of it
so it takes very very courageous men and
women in Hollywood in my humble opinion
to stand up to this sort of thing not
only because of the atmosphere there but
because they do not experience the sort
of thing that's being experienced
throughout the rest of the country when
somebody tries to open a business or
keep one open or when somebody's trying
to even a trucker I get tipsters calling
me saying that this is crazy I mean I
get you know you've heard them all kinds
of people telling me how they're going
out of business and so forth there is
definitely a fundamental transformation
going on and I think it's going to take
ultimately 50 years to undo it but in in
two three four or five years if the
American people elect this brand of a
leadership it can't be undone how do you
undo it so I tell you this not to
depress you I'd tell you this to
energize you you have a reason to get up
in the morning a reason to get involved
a reason to do all these things that you
need to do as an activist citizen and
you know that that phrase it's always
darkest before the dawn how do you think
they felt during the American Revolution
dragging on for eight and a half years
how do you think they felt during any
one of the battles in the Civil War how
do you think they felt during World War
two when they are facing down the worst
forms of genocidal maniacs how do you
think they felt well we have no none of
those dangers but we have a job to do
which is in many ways more complicated
because it's occurring within our
country the instrumentalities of the
government and the law are being twisted
and used against us exactly how Woodrow
Wilson and FDR and others wanted them to
be so if you if you it's it's like BAM
it if you accept what's going on I mean
except the fact of it going on not
accept the result you'll be in a much
better position to motivate it to do
something about it
you know in a legal and legitimate and
political way up here in the belkin
don't jump Thank You mr. Levin first off
I'm a high school sophomore every
morning we the very few in the class say
the pledge of allegiance to our gorgeous
flag and most of the students mock it
openly others sit quietly but it
disgusts me to see these kids make jokes
out of it plays on words and and laugh
at it and enjoy it and it just makes me
want to throw up and I want to know how
I can in some weight influence these
people and be an influence on other
people to share the greatness of the
country and undo what's been done to
disrespect our flag and and teach people
what what is coming out in their actions
everybody in here is proud of you I'm
going to tell you that that's number one
and you're smarter than every one of
those kids who sit on their hands or
mock the flag let me tell you something
I can't even tell you how many men and
women throughout our history of died
just making sure that flag was held up
in battle it just it disgust me to you
look at the ad with g1 monument what
those men were doing there that's just
one example it had thousands and
thousands of thousands of time men
carrying the the American flag even in
the Civil War they were the targets they
were shot first if they couldn't get the
general or the commander and so forth
same during the Revolutionary War when
they held the flag of the various
colonies or of the new country all out
throughout Europe it occurred and they
sit there and smugly mock and left let
me tell you something I don't know how
we fix that but maybe you can pull one
or two of them aside in it in and
educate them one or two a time that's
the best way to do I often say on the
radio that I'm here educating one
liberal at a time the truth is I'm
probably not educating any of them and
that's why I've concluded that there are
people out there like all the duggan
types the drones because there's nothing
we can do or say that's going to
convince them of anything those people
must be defeated and so the way you
defeat them is to get to the other
people who aren't paying attention or
who are not engaged and who have some
some kind of an open mind or an open
attitude about these things and that's
what you do you find out if there's a
couple kids in the class you said can I
talk to you and have a little chat with
them do you how many people died
carrying that flag and if the kids are
loser move on to another one there's
plenty of kids to talk
mark on a different subject but Bernie
current events are right in our face
given the situation in the Middle East
between Israel and Iran and mixed
signals coming out of the White House
for mr. you know who my question is this
do you feel as in your opinion that
Prime Minister Netanyahu one of the
greatest leaders the world has ever had
well in fact do what he has to do to
protect his people do you think he will
unilaterally go in and if so when and
what would the repercussions be if he
does thank I spoke them yesterday I
don't think that country with those
people are going to allow another
Holocaust I just don't think there's any
way that is a very powerful tiny little
country that is massively outnumbered
and massively outgunned but I do not
think they're going to allow the aslam o
nut jobs in Tehran to get a nuclear
weapon if they can stop but the problem
is we are not arming them with the arms
that they need these deep penetrating
bombs the the type of jets that they
need so not only do they have to figure
out where the locations are that they
have to hit they have got to figure out
how to get there what ordinance to use
how to fix the ordinance change the
ordinance how to get back then to deal
with the massive onslaught that's likely
to occur when they're done from the Gaza
Strip from Lebanon perhaps from the
Muslim Brotherhood now in Saudi Arabia
they are surrounded except for Jordan
which is basically teetering so what I
regret and really regret in great
discussed is that at a time like this
with a president sending mixed signals
and I guarantee you if Ronald Reagan was
president united states
they wouldn't think twice about
continuing with this nuclear arms
program I think Reagan would make it
abundantly clear that not only do we
stand with Israel and not only will we
give them the weapons they need we'll
use the weapons ourselves if we have to
that's what I think would happen
but no i don't i can't tell you when
this is going to happen or what's going
to happen but i can tell you those
people are not going to allow themselves
to be annihilated a couple weeks ago we
lost a great patriot and I person I have
tremendous moral courage Andrew
Breitbart he understood very clearly
that at least since the sixties if not
before the Liberals have been very good
at controlling pop culture and defining
cool do you think conservatism can grab
that mantle back from the liberals I
think we try you know I think we have to
try everything we possibly can I love
hearing the the words that that my good
friend Andrew Breitbart was strong and
courageous and we ought to do what he
does and then one of my colleagues comes
under this enormous attack and where is
everybody they run for the hills so I
don't know if we can or will but I know
we need to try and one of the great
things he did is he created an
institution there's a lot of young
people over there working at
breitbart.com he's launched a new site
he's got a lot of young people over
there who are I guess I'll call them
bright Bart's army and they're going to
keep at it we all have our roles in life
and this is what I'm trying to say each
of you can go back to your community and
make a difference I'm not just saying
this I'm saying it's the only chance we
have we sit there on election I we said
gee you are people going to be motivated
or more that I'm going to turn out than
I so we're going to will do something
about it you're sick of the local
Republican Party do something about it
because that the Republican party
doesn't do something about it I think
the Republican Party is going to go the
way of the Whig party at some point and
don't don't clap yet because if that
happens then the Democrat Party is going
to have power for a very very long time
because conservatives will be split for
a long time it takes time and
third-party race third party elections
have been miserable for the last hundred
years so to answer your question there's
so much to do and it becomes
overwhelming if you allow it all to pile
on but if you focus in on what you not
the macro but the micro what you can do
in your home in your on your street with
your family with your neighbors when you
get in debates with them and bring these
things up you're doing what the
colonists did before the Revolution
that's what you're doing when you when
you bring these things up and discuss
lock do you know lock was the most
discussed philosopher before the
Revolution you're talking about mountain
men you're talking about ever some
people were educated many people were
not you're talking about subsistence
farmers and that sort of thing learning
about Locke and Montesquieu you don't
even have to learn a lot you just have
to learn enough because I'm going to
tell you something there are many people
in here are some who came at the book
signing said I was a liberal and I'm not
anymore are there any of you here yes
but what happened to those people let me
tell you something when you see the
light it's a great thing when you see
the light seriously when you when you it
liberates your mind doesn't it all this
hate all this jealousy all this nonsense
all this I wish that our country when
you understand liberty when you finally
cross over that transom it is it is
something you're willing to fight for
it's something you're willing to defend
that is the spirit that's the American
spirit that's the American heritage and
we you have a responsibility as a
citizen to help save this country and
that's how you have to do it there's no
magic answer I don't have one and none
exists and you know there's a also point
at which these politicians we just can't
keep settling either now I talked about
in my opinion the need to defeat the
need to stop the damage and I think it's
particularly crucial in this election
cycle and if the damage is stopped after
this election cycle and I think we the
people really need to focus on getting
statesmen and office and there there
there there there Jim DeMint's the rand
paul's marco rubio's ron johnson mike
leigh's these are young got these are
new these are these are these are the
future i think you can look in the house
with the paul ryan's michele bachmann's
and others like that the steve king's
louie gohmert there's summat there's
there is a core there and the fact of
the matter is conservatism is mainstream
conservatism is constitutional as one
last thing i'm long winded here the the
what i have been pushing for the last
three years on my show with liberty and
tyranny with this book wherever I can is
this notion of constant
to tional conservatism because you know
people say we need a new program we need
a plan we have it we have a plan it's
called the Constitution we have a
program it's called capitalism we have
an idea it's called Liberty what they
have is a mess bureaucracies bureaucrats
redistribution of wealth and when the
people understand what a joy Liberty is
when they're liberated from all this
other nonsense then it'll be like our
founding and then we'll get our country
back and if they don't if they expect
entitlements if they can be bought off
for a monthly check then we're done okay
we got time for one last question mr.
fleet Levine thank you for your time
today my name is Rick Simmons and I'm an
American and my question is kind of a
technical question you have your papers
I do I have a person I'm not allowed to
ask for it I have birth certificate my
question is I believe one of our
problems is we have too many career
politicians and I like your thoughts on
how do we implement term limits in
Congress to eliminate career politicians
and get new blood if you will into
Congress and new blood that may run for
the presidency in the future so I like
your thoughts on that well part of the
problem we have two ways amending the
Constitution you're talking about term
limits which I agree with through
Convention which I strongly oppose
because i just cannot what a freak show
convention that would be
I don't think we can do better than our
founders and a runaway convention could
be a runaway country so i just am not
comfortable with that as a young man I
wrote Barry Goldwater letter and I said
what's wrong with this conventions I
have this level and he said hell no no
to convention I can't imagine that any
group of Americans today can do better
than they did so the other way of
amending the Constitution is you need a
supermajority wrote out of the Congress
two thirds and then three fourths by the
Senate by these states I don't think
we're going to get a supermajority the
members of Congress voting to limit
their power and yet why don't we fight
for it I mean why don't the left just is
added constantly health care they've
been at health care for a hundred years
they got their supermajority their
president they rammed it home you know
we have to make some demands on our
politicians too we have to make some
demands on our candidates to they call
us close minded when we do well in hell
we're close minded who much cares we
have to push our agenda there's a lot of
things that I think need to be done and
I don't want to really give it away
because I've thought about a lot of
these things but that that said I like
your idea it's not a new idea but it is
something we had to keep pushing for and
by the way it's not a magic bullet
either for instance I think the courts
are out of control and yet here we are
keep people keep saying sue up take it
to court and you go to Courtney oh my
god all these appointees are against us
and then they institutionalize from a
legal perspective which is what they
seek to do the left's agenda so we had
to be careful about that too but there's
a lot that fundamentally what's happened
is what I say we're not really a
constitutional we we adhere to the
Constitution in the breach and the more
the people understand that more that
people understand how dangerous that is
a better chance we have there's a lot of
things that need to be done and could be
done and the biggest problem we have in
our country today is is a word is verte
and Charles de Montesquieu made the
point he said once the Republic loses
its virtue it ceases to be a republic
and that is the bottom line have our
politicians all lost virtue have the
people lost virtue are we prepared to
keep plundering one another these
questions are going to be decided in the
next round election cycle election
cycles after that and I don't have an
answer but there's a lot of things
there's no reason we should give up on
certain constitutional amendments or any
of these things and play for the
mid-game the long game the short game
whatever game we have to play this is
this is these are complicated subjects
which is why it takes me a long time to
answer one question because I try and
get in the philosophy in a little
history and a little economics and a
little practical aspects of it too but I
just want to return to one thing when
you leave here you really can be a
spokesman for liberty at the dinner
table at the workplace in your community
and you really can persuade something
just imagine if 10 million of us
persuade 10 million other people it can
have an incredibly historic impact so
don't think you doing something small is
not relevant it's very relevant I would
just ask you when we leave here do
something just do something thank you
Mark
I can I just do one quick thing I want
to thank you all for coming I know you
have better things to do on a Friday
night it is a great honor I don't do a
lot of these events and I want to thank
the people at the Reagan Library you
know this isn't just the library I
consider this like a national town-hall
meeting place for people who remember
the Reagan Revolution and think we need
another so thank you very much
in a non-partisan way of course yeah
well speaking of thanks mark we want to
give you a gift from the reagan
foundation a library but i think i'd
like to make sure we give this gift on
behalf of everyone who is so nice to
come out tonight and that is a fellow
that you might recognize oh wow
so it is inscribed for Mark Levin March
9th 2012 and there's a quote inscribed
in it which is one of the very vast
lines and marks book and it is a Ronald
Reagan quote and it says it is time for
us to realize that we are too great a
nation to live in ourselves to small
dreams so mark thank you so much
we can do it right all right governor
thank you
if I could ask everyone to remain those
seats for just a moment so mark and his
family can exit out this way and then I
know all of you are joining us for
dinner and you'll be heading out the
doors this way over to the Air Force One
pavilion so we'll see you over there
thanks very much thank you